To begin with, what I'm going to
do is explain how things have been
done so far, because it will help
you understand the difference
with the customer person.
Traditionally, companies have done
what they have done is to segment,
that is, you identify a series of
segmentation variables, it doesn't
matter, the ones they are, age, gender,
level of studies, geography,
it doesn't matter.
From those variables, you
enter those variables in a search
and you get some segments.
And then what you do is to evaluate or
analyze which segments you are going
to target, which is targeting.
But in any case, your target is
a set of people, it is a mass
or it is a statistic.
But it turns out that your customers
are people, like you and me.
And the companies have done what they have
done is depersonalize it all and a
lot of things are lost.
And here the customer person enters,
that is, instead of introducing a
series of variables, what we will
do is we will create or we will
identify or we will analyze
who and how our customers are.
What is the Customer Person?
Basically, it is a fictional representation
of your ideal customer, your ideal
customer, or your ideal customers.
We will describe how it is, we
will put a photo of it, we will
put names, we will analyze what
it likes, we will analyze what
their hobbies are, we will analyze
why you buy us, we will analyze
how you buy us, what it hurts,
who you consult, we will do
it as detailed as possible.
So what we're going to do is turn
that target, that mass, that
statistics, into one or several
real people, because it will
help us understand it much better.
What is the customer
person for?
All these tools
require effort.
And I want you to visualize or understand
what the profit a business generates,
because otherwise you will never
apply it, you will not take it seriously.
The customer person helps
you to understand your target
customer much better.
This has a huge impact on
all areas of business.
If you are able to know well what
are the problems, needs, motivations
of your client, at a strategic
level you will be able
to adapt your value proposals.
You will be able to create value
proposals that are fully
targeted at the customer's problem.
And at a more tactical level, if we
talk about marketing, for
example, usually the customer person
is used by the marketing departments.
It allows you to shoot more accurately.
Why is?
I can give you thousands of
examples.
We will look at what kind of
blogs or media you are consulting.
Let's analyze what social
media you use, when and how you
use them.
We will analyze what type of
content you find attractive and we
can create content tailored to your
interests.
Let's look at what kind of influencers
you are following.
We will analyze whether, for example,
consult or not to other people
when you want to buy us.
All this information to
the marketing department, to
the marketing managers is
real gold.
Because it allows them to shoot much
more efficiently and more effectively.
Look, I will give you an example.
Lifelong sellers, good sellers,
make an effort to know
who they have in front
of them.
And they use tactics such as remembering
the name of the client's wife or
husband, knowing if they like a football
team or another, etc.
Why is?
It allows them to adapt messages.
The customer person is the
same.
What happens is that we will do
so that the entire company knows
our customer well and so everyone
when making decisions take them
with the target customer in
their head.
I think we all understand
the benefits of having or
having created our customer
person.
And now what we're going to do is,
let's see how we can create one.
To get a little idea, the first
thing I'll do is share
some with you.
Simply as an example.
Look, as you usually see, you get
a name, you incorporate a photo
and what you do is incorporate
information of a different type.
And I don't want to go into the
details, but here in this case
because a coffee shop is explaining
how a day is in Sara's life, what
is her background, her
financial situation, her
online behaviors, etc.
Here we have another, in this case Rachel,
who loves home.
Well, it's a bit, the blocks
are a bit similar.
The personal background, the background
at business level, work, your
lifestyle, your challenges, your
problems, where you are looking for information.
Well, really the first step to
create a customer person is to choose
the questions or choose the information
that we will collect and that
we will incorporate from
our customer.
This is the first step and really
is the crucial phase, because not
for all companies the same
information is important.
And I'm going to leave you a simple
scheme with two slides, with
a series of fields or questions.
I divided them into two blocks.
The first of the blocks,
information related to who and
how is our customer, regardless
of their relationship
with us.
So, the questions you can choose
are thousands, but I here put
you because general data,
could be age, gender, if
you are married, no, etc.
Information about your lifestyle,
your tastes and hobbies, your motivations
and dreams, how it is
a day in your life.
This is very important, this incorporates
many people one day in their lives.
Why is?
Because if you understand what your daily
habits are, it's easier to
get to that person.
It is easier to adapt your entire
marketing tactics.
I'll also give you a second slide
with other questions.
And in this case they are related
to how our customer person
relates to us.
That is, it is no longer a purely
objective question of how he or she is.
If we are analyzing the relationship,
what is the problem, what
is the pain we have to solve,
how it solves that problem
at present.
Imagine, for example, that you
are buying a competitive product.
What do you look for in our product?
What is the real motivation you are looking
for?
Where do you seek information?
How do you find us?
How is the purchase process?
This is very important.
Take a decision immediately,
consult with someone, etc.
Influencers, what I told you, consult
the decision with someone, buy
alone, alone, buy together
with someone, etc.
What are the main objections
to our product,
our service?
Well, these are questions or fields
that I suggest.
But really, when you have to make
your personal card, what I recommend
is that you start from these
and also do some online research
and get inspired by thousands
of customer person that
are published.
Finally, let's make a summary
of how a customer person
is made.
The first thing is to identify
well or choose the questions that
are appropriate.
We've seen that there are thousands of types
of customer person and each company
incorporates one or another information.
And for some it is valuable to
know what their job is and for
others not.
So you have to adapt it.
I think it will help you by looking
at many examples or seeing the examples
we have put today.
It will inspire you.
Two, you have to meet with
dozens of customers, you have
to analyze all the information
you have about customers in your
databases, in the CRM, all the
information you can.
Why is?
Because it can't be that the
customer person will create it with
your assumptions alone because it's
very easy that you make a lot of mistakes.
This is one of the most common
mistakes, by the way.
Third, we will create the different
customer person.
From all that information we have
collected, we will identify
if there are one, two, three
profiles, those that are.
We will be able to create them and detail
them as much as possible.
And fourth, what you have to do is
that this work that is super-
value you have to bring it to the
knowledge of the entire organization.
This cannot be left alone at the level
of the general management
or the corresponding marketing
manager, etc.
No to.
It is really valuable that the entire
organization knows and understands
well what the customer person is.
Because so it is much easier than
when you make decisions in your
day to day, that you often think
it has nothing to do with customers.
Every decision we make should
be directed to creating
value for the customer.
Therefore, I recommend that the customer
person share it with the entire
organization.